Prospects were dim for resolution of the political crisis in Cambodia in October 1998.
Prime Minister Hun Sen insisted that talks take place in Cambodia while opposition leaders Ranariddh and Sam Rainsy, fearing arrest at home, wanted them abroad.
King Sihanouk declined to chair talks in either place.
A U.S. House resolution criticized Hun Sen's regime while the opposition tried to cut off his access to loans.
But in November the King announced a coalition government with Hun Sen heading the executive and Ranariddh leading the parliament.
Left out, Sam Rainsy sought the King's assurance of Hun Sen's promise of safety and freedom for all politicians.
Cambodian elections, fraudulent according to opposition parties, gave the CPP of Hun Sen a scant majority but not enough to form its own government.
Opposition leaders fearing arrest, or worse, fled and asked for talks outside the country.
Han Sen refused.
The UN found evidence of rights violations by Hun Sen prompting the US House to call for an investigation.
The three-month governmental deadlock ended with Han Sen and his chief rival, Prince Norodom Ranariddh sharing power.
Han Sen guaranteed safe return to Cambodia for all opponents but his strongest critic, Sam Rainsy, remained wary.
Chief of State King Norodom Sihanouk praised the agreement.
Cambodian prime minister Hun Sen rejects demands of 2 opposition parties for talks in Beijing after failing to win a 2/3 majority in recent elections.
Sihanouk refuses to host talks in Beijing.
Opposition parties ask the Asian Development Bank to stop loans to Hun Sen's government.
CCP defends Hun Sen to the US Senate.
FUNCINPEC refuses to share the presidency.
Hun Sen and Ranariddh eventually form a coalition at summit convened by Sihanouk.
Hun Sen remains prime minister, Ranariddh is president of the national assembly, and a new senate will be formed.
Opposition leader Rainsy left out.
He seeks strong assurance of safety should he return to Cambodia.
Cambodia King Norodom Sihanouk praised formation of a coalition of the Countries top two political parties, leaving strongman Hun Sen as Prime Minister and opposition leader Prince Norodom Ranariddh president of the National Assembly.
The announcement comes after months of bitter argument following the failure of any party to attain the required quota to form a government.
Opposition leader Sam Rainey was seeking assurances that he and his party members would not be arrested if they return to Cambodia.
Rainey had been accused by Hun Sen of being behind an assassination attempt against him during massive street demonstrations in September.
